Lessons
Header Navigation
Anthropic Academy
Courses
My Profile
Sign Out
Anthropic Academy
Courses
My Profile
Sign Out
Claude Code in Action
Course Overview
What is Claude Code?
Introduction
What is a coding assistant?
Claude Code in action
Getting hands on
Claude Code setup
Project setup
Adding context
Making changes
Course satisfaction survey
Controlling context
Custom commands
MCP servers with Claude Code
Github integration
Hooks and the SDK
Introducing hooks
Defining hooks
Implementing a hook
Gotchas around hooks
Useful hooks!
Another useful hook
The Claude Code SDK
Wrapping up
Quiz on Claude Code
Summary and next steps
Gotchas around hooks
Open in Claude
Open in Claude
Ask questions about this course
Copy notes
Copy full course notes for LLMs
You may notice that after running the npm run dev command there are two settings.json files in the .claude directory. Let me explain what's going on there.
The Claude Code documentation lists some recommendations around hooks security:
One of the recommendations is to use absolute paths (rather than relative paths) for scripts. This helps mitigate path interception and binary planting attacks.
This recommendation also makes it much more challenging to share settings.json files. The reason is simple: the absolute path to any of the hook scripts on your machine will likely be different from the absolute path on my machine, simply because we will probably place the project in separate directories.
To solve this problem, our project has a settings.example.json file. Inside of it, the script references contain a $PWD placeholder. When we run npm run setup, some dependencies are installed, but it also runs an init-claude.js script placed inside the scripts directory. This script will replace those $PWD placeholder with the absolute path to the project on your machine, copy the settings.example.json file, and rename it to settings.local.json.
This script allows us to share settings.json files but still use the recommended absolute paths!
Previous
- Implementing a hook
Gotchas around hooks
Useful hooks!
Next
Complete
